# Game 5 - The Doggie, the Piper and the Monster (2017-11-26)

## Players

+ _Fabio_ as the __*GM*__
+ _Alice_ as __*Pilgrim Donkey Teeth*__
+ _Eddie_ (still absent) as __*Pilgrim Wandering Bee*__
+ _Jordan_ as __*Pilgrim Cloud Giant*__
+ _Declan_ (absent) as __*Pilgrim Reckless Rock*__

## The Gentle Monster

We left Pilgrims last session into a cliffhanger, where they could feel a shadow growing behind them and scaring all the monsters in the forest. In the start of this session, the Wolfmen and Ogres started by run away from whatever was behind the Pilgrims back. The shadow was big, __*REALLY*__ Big, even bigger than Cloud Giant.

The Pilgrims turned back and saw that big monster, that looked like _Swamp Thing meets Shrek_, really big and with a kind of moss mingled into his fur, big arms, with __*big, profound, childish eyes*__. Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant present themselves as Pilgrims of the Flying Temple, and the Monster started to talk with a profound, slow voice, remembering that was not so common Pilgrims getting into Vigro, and the last of them coming into at least __*ten turns Vigro spun around the Temple*__. The Monster presented himself as Grah'hor, and they could see that in fact he was a kind of __*Gentle Monster*__. 

Grah'hor asked the Pilgrims why they were there and said that where the were in the forest was not safe for people. Donkey Teeth talked about their letter to discover what's happening and why animals were missing, and Grah'hor confirmed, rubbing his belly, that there was *__no rabbits, no hares, no animals to eat__*. When Donkey Teeth asks about anyone strange in the Forest, Grah'hor says about a *__little girl from the Village that got into the Forest__*. Grah'hor also says that he didn't liked how the Villagers treated them, by hurting them with arrows and spears and axes. Donkey Teeth says that looks like the villagers just don't understand him, and he agrees, as he's big and lived in Vigro since before the human settlers came, but this doesn't make him less sad to be misunderstood. Donkey Teeth asked them for Grah'hor's help, and he agreed to help the Pilgrims, saying that the little girl got into the direction of the only big mountain from Vigro, and he agreed to go with the Pilgrims, as Grah'hor doesn't like also the monsters that lives in the Forest, and looks like this was because Grah'hor was the one blamed by the monsters' bad actions.

Grah'hor helps them to get on the direction from the little girl by pushing some of the smaller trees aside to build some trail in the forest. In the meantime, Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant send Reckless Rock back to the village to asks for some help, as they were going deeper and deeper into the woods (thus explaining Reckless Rock's abscense).

Grah'hor and the Pilgrims discovers a little glen in the Forest with a small extinguished fire, a small blanket people uses to camp out beside it. Donkey Teeth starts to asks for Molly or anybody else they have no answer, but Donkey Teeth was certain that Molly had camped that place, so he takes the blanket, that was a little moisty, as he was left in the ground for some days in the damp ground. Grah'hor shows the Pilgrims that's something is wrong in the fire, and they see that looks like the fire was not extinguished after the day come, but looks like he was burned all the way down, and the ashes were cold. 

They suspected that either she ran away from something or was carried away, and they started to investigate the campsite. Donkey Teeth invokes his __*I can't let more of my friends leave me*__, as he feels he needs to live the Temple's legacy after Sassy Rabbit leave them behind in Jukku. He still failed in the check, but he had a good enough roll to see that __*there was no child-sized footprint in the ground*__, and there should be, as the ground was moist enough on that glen to hold footprints for a while. Cloud Giant looked around and thought that, if she had run away, there would be footprints, so she was taken away. And so someone had catch Molly somehow.

## Tivoli

While the Pilgrims were looking the glen, they heard a little yip nearby, a little away from the glen. Cloud Giant looked to see from where the yip came, and Donkey Teeth intimidated by saying he was pissed off enough with creepy monsters, and the voice in the forest said he's not a creepy monster, sounding very scared, yipping a little, the voice with a kind of doggy accent. Donkey Teeth said the creature to come, and they saw a little dog, a crossbred between a beagle and a dalmatian, waking into his hind legs. He presents himself as _Tivoli_, Molly's pet dog, and he was hiding from Molly, because he was tired to being almost hugged to death by Molly. So, he ran away to play a trick with her and so he would soon get back and she would be not so overboard with him. 

Cloud Giant asked him if it was the monsters that catched Molly, but Tivoli said it wasn't: she ran from the monster and stayed in the glen to take some sleep, when some black dressed guys taken her after a kind of music started to play all around. When asked by Donkey Teeth about from where the music came, he pointed the sma general direction Grah'hor did, but just a little to the West. 

When Tivoli saw Grah'hor, he gone on his four paws, ready to run away, but Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant stopped him, saying that Grah'hor was a __*Gentle Monster*__ and was helping them to find Molly. Tivoli, taking the Pilgrim's words as true, take a whiff on Grah'hor, and saw that __*he was big but not mean*__.

Tivoli then says he's worried with Molly. Donkey Teeth says that if he wants he could wait them in the glen, but Tivoli was __*frightened enough to not want to be alone on that forest*__ and __*he want to find and protect Molly*__, so he joined the pilgrims and Grah'hor to find Molly and the animals. Also, Tivoli says that __*his grandparent was a good tracker dog*__. Donkey Teeth cheer people talking about a Wizard called Oz.

The group gets forward and they saw a little river, that Tivoli says Molly's captors got on and crossed to make the monsters lose their scent (as Tivoli did), and they chose to cross the river. Donkey Teeth did a kind of awkward swimming, and he catched Tivoli and he miscalculated the deepness of the river, and he almost drown Tivoli in the process, making him yips in despair, and Donkey Teeth does a weird doggy swim to get across the river before Tivoli gets drown, holding Tivoli in the arm and splashing him back and forth until crossed the river. When got in the other side, already very wet, Tivoli shakes himself, making Donkey Teeth even more wet, and he retorts Donkey Teeth indignantly. Cloud Giant goes and piggybacks Grsh'hor while crossing the river, but Grah'hor was too much clumsy, shaking Cloud Giant all around like he was into a rodeo, and making Cloud Giant being sent against a shruberry, a pricky, thorny one, and Cloud Giant felt some pain in the proccess, even more when Donkey Teeth took the thorns away into a painfully way. After that, Tivoli tried to catch Molly's scent back, but Grah'hor points to a little smoke that got over the trees nearby the mountain. Donkey Teeth asks Grah'hor if he saw sometime people came that far in the forest and Grah'hor says no, he didnt saw, as they are __*too far from the Village deep the Forest*__, at least five or six hours away (crossing that far easily thanks to Grah'hor). 

Walking a little more, Cloud Giant detected something weird, and Donkey Teeth answered by stopping get forward, looking around to intimidate anything, but there was nothing there. Tivoli and Grah'hor , however, just get forward and activated some __*Traps*__: Grah'hor felt on a pit, screaming in pain, and Tivoli was catched on a net over a tree...

Now Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant had to release Tivoli: trying to find the rope that hold Tivoli's net, he didn't found it, but he asked Cloud Giant to throw him to the net, and bite the rope. Tivoli was still scred, looking Donkey Teeth's teeth which were really scary, as he saw so much scary thing that day that he was almost snapping, Tivoli's paws hitting Donkey Thing's back like he's trying to run away.

Grah'hor, in the pit, screamed that something was hurting him, and the Pilgrims would now need to free him from the pit. The deep was very deed (5 meters) but very tight, Grah'hor almost being stuck in the pit. Cloud Giant wanted to dig the pit sides to open some space to make Grah'hor get away by his own. Donkey Teeth helped him and, invoking his Aspect  __*I can't let more of my friends leave me*__ again and even Tivoli doing some help, they helped Grah'hor to get out, but they saw that Grah'hor was bleeding, as there was lots of spikes below the pit, that hurted Grah'hor feet. Donkey Teeth provided some help and found some herbs and used them into Grah'hor's feet as a poultrice, while Cloud Rock used Molly's blanket as some help. Then Grah'hor felt a little better, but Tivoli was a little uneasy after the bandage. 

Donkey Teeth apologized about scaring Tivoli, and he said it was okay, but at the same time he took some whiffs from all around, and asked if someone else felt a weird smell, but he could say that was everywhere. They just left this away and just get back going forward, Tivoli doesn't wanting to be away from Molly anymore.

While they walked, they looked that the trees were more spaced out and they found another glen, and on it a small bag, with a flashlight and some sandwiches, like Molly said she would be in the letter. Donkey Teeth asked if that was from Molly and Tivoli confirmed. That was a confirmation they were in the right way, until they found a fork with two roads and they asked Tivoli to point if some of them had Molly's scent on it and he found the one forward was the one. 

## The Piper

While the Pilgrims were get forward, they saw another glen, in front of the mountain, where some people were working. Donkey Teeth asked Grah'hor to wait for them, while the Pilgrims and Tivoli. Just sometime after they got away from Grah'hor, they discovered that some __*Smelly Herbs*__ on Grah'hor feet bandages, and they heard something getting away from the trees and Grah'hor screaming like something was wrong. Tivoli felt the smell and talked to Donkey Teeth, and so they knew that smell denounced Grah'hor position, which made some __*Hunters*__ got over him and __*Tying Grah'hor up*__, and Donkey Teeth got back to help Grah'gor. Two Hunters were holding Grah'hor with some thick ropes. That opened a Conflict.

First of all, Donkey Teeth had run to munch the ropes on and easily did this, and Grah'hor took the time and gone for an intimidation attack against the two hunters, and Cloud Giant pushed Grah'hor away from his attackers, that were totally __*Frozen*__ and try to run away, but at least one of them was bitten in the ankle Tivoli, that hold the bite until the hunter promised not to run away.

Donkey Teeth asks about Molly and the animals to the hunter, but the hunter was a bad liar and was detected as a liar by Tivoli, that sniffed the lies out of him. Donkey Teeth pusehd a little more against the hunter, but he stayed saying he had nothing with Molly and the animals, but Donkey Teeth needed only to show her shark-like teeth to intimidate him to spit all out about what was happening: another planet nearby got into a famine, and the hunters were there to steal the herds Vigro had. There was this guy, called only __*The Piper*__ that induced the herd into a trance to get until where they were. The other hunter was already gone to the camp from where the Pilgrims saw the smoke coming, just a little far away  nearby the mountain, so the Pilgrims knew that __*their enemies would be readt for them, and so they would be*__. They freed the hunter, that ran away, limping on the bitten leg, in the opposite way.

The Pilgrims were almost certain that the animals (and Molly) were put into a trance somehow by some weird kind of music or so, and so Donkey Teeth tried to improvise some __*Earplug*__ so they could protect themselves from the influences of the Piper. It was good enough for a Boost, and so they could gain some time on a fight against the Piper. But at the same time their heard some music... And Tivoli was affected, as being a __*little Doggie*__, they could be easily influenced by the Piper, that had a Stunt to call all the animals nearby by  music, and so Tivoli had undergone into a __*Hypnotic Trance*__, and Donkey Teeth needed to take him under his arms. Cloud Giant found this creepy, and Donkey Teeth believe that they could not goes just front, following the path they were, so they got into another way into the woods to not just get straight front on the enemies.

And it was when Donkey Teeth had his Banner __*Little restraint, no filter*__ compelled to send the safety and planning to the dogs and gone into action NOW!, going CHARGE!!! against the foreigner hunters and the Piper. They saw the mountain and there was a glen in the mountain base, just in front of a cave that the hunters used as a base. There was also a pretty guy into troubadour clothes and with a metallic copper hair, holding a side-blown flute. Donkey Teeth "diplomatically" (his words) tried ot intimidate the guy to say where Molly and the animals were. They could see Molly just behind the man, dressed as a little princess (not into the clothes an overboard little girl would use to investigate things into a big forest), her eyes empty like Tivoli's, so showing she was under a __*hypnotic trance*__. 

Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant thought all this was creepy, but it was when the Piper started to play his pipe again. As someone that __*Travelled through thousands on moons and suns*__, he could __*use music in many ways to achieve his goals*__, and he wanted to __*make the Pilgrims run away like the little kids they were (his opinion)*__, and so he start to play a Song of Despair, using another of his Stunts. This made the Pilgrims gone crazy on the terrible music, and they got to defend from the attack: Cloud Giant tried to just tap his ears with the fingers, but it was not too much effective, as he suffered a 3-Stress attack, because he felt all the times he almost lost control and gone into destruction. Donkey Teeth just gripped his teeth and felt his rage, and he had a Tie, but he used his __*Earplug*__ Boost to just be successful into his defense, holding himself. 

Two mean hunters got to attack Donkey Teeth, but even getting out of the way, Doneky Teeth took a 1-Stress attack, taking into the 1-Stress Box. Cloud Giant was the next one to act, and chosed to got for the Piper and trying to took The Piper's Pipe, to smash it. This opened a Contest between Cloud Giant and The Piper, and Cloud Giant had a _Success With a Style_ and gave a great pull that worried The Piper, while he engaged into a tug-of-war against Cloud Giant for the Flute. Donkey Teeth attacked the mean hunters by intimidate them and had a _Success with a Style_, so good that he frozed those guys without any attack. Grah'hor tried the same against The Piper, but The Piper was not amused with Grah'hor, while Tivoli broke himself from the __*Hypnotic Trance*__, and gone to try to break Molly's trance.

The next Conflict roll starts with the Contest between Cloud Giant and The Piper next exchange, and Cloud Giant was successful, so he was victorious in the Contest, which made Cloud Giant took the flute and broke it snapping it into his knees, what make Molly got away from the __*Hypnotic Trance*__, Tivoli jumping over her happy and relieved. The Piper, however was not happy with this, as it took too much time to find this _**Enchated Pipe**_, and he could not use his music-like Stunts (as they were _in the pipe_). He then reveals himself as a graduated Pilgrim of the Flying Temple, calling himself _**Singing Snake**_, taunting them saying that, on his time, the Pilgrims were cleverer, but this didn't fazed either Donkey Teeth and Cloud Giant, while taking a rapier-like sword and pushing an attack against Cloud Giant, that just tired to par the attack, but felt a little 1-Stress Attack as a sting on his side. Not enough to real damage, but still hurts. Cloud Giant then tried to take the rapier from The Piper hand and he took the rapier, by just twisting The Piper arm's, which made him leaving the weapon fell while in pain, cursing the Pilgrims, which resulted in the defeat of the Piper.

Donkey Teeth wanted to know more on The Piper actions, and he revealed that he found the Flute into a cache of old Flying Temple's artifact, in a world far away from the Temple in the Heaven of Night. The Piper said that he saw that something was wrong in the Temple, but he didn't knew that __*The Temple Was Missing*__, that made him gone really worried when Donkey Teeth said him the Temple had gone, and he confirmed that it was his job to enchant somehow the animals. Molly them just got and kicked the Piper in the ankle, screaming _**"MEANIE!**_ in the process. Which was the end of the problem with the Heard

## Traitor and Letter

Molly was a little confused, after being too much time into a __*Hypnotic Trance*__, and he asked the Pilgrims how her and Tivoli had gone there, and Cloud Giant said they were hypnotised. In the meantime, one of the guys Donkey Teeth frozed shook himself away from the fear and said that __*Vigro would fall into his planet, Vagrul's, hands*__, into a kind of __*Divine Manifesto*__. Donkey Teeth demanded to know who were in charge, and it was that guy, and that __*he was commanded by Vagrul's King himself to do this*__. Donkey Teeth wanted to know where is Vagrul, and asked The Piper for a Planetary chart, and so The Piper marked Vagrul on it. The other hunter says that there was a traitor in Vigro's village, into Vagrul's pockets. They also found the dry ice, that was the "mystical mist that eated the herd's flesh" the villagers talked about.

In the Star Chart The Piper did, __*there was a world there wasn't into the Flying Temple Charts*__ as far the Pilgrims remembered, and Donkey Teeth made a copy of this __*Star Chart*__. In the meantime, Molly took Tivoli and hugged him a lot, and Donkey Teeth asked Molly to not try to kill Tivoli by hugging him. Molly understood and stopped to hug him this painful way, crying, and Tivoli also said he should not play that kind of trick by running away and putting her into danger. This way, they all were ready to get back Vigro's village, including Grah'hor.

After a long but easy traveç: Grah'hor made the monsters go away, as they thought that the Pilgrim's were either Grah'hor's friends or strong enough to tame Grah'hor, anyway they were bad sport. But when they arrived the village wall, they saw the villagers armed with crosbows, ready to attack, specially after looking they were _"aside with that beast"_ Grah'hor. Doneky Teeth tried to argue that Grah'hor was a friend, but someone said they were lying: it was the guy that Tivoli bitten, so he was the traitor. The guy also called Tivoli a monster, as he was a talking dog (it not that common talking animals in the Many Worlds, even not being unheard of), which should not be. 

Donkey Teeth said the man was a criminal that was helping on the herd stealing, and the guy said that the Pilgrims were powerful and sneaky enough to meddle their minds. Cloud Giant said Molly could speak the truth about them, and Molly showed herself, Jefter his father being one with the crossbows. Molly defended them, and Donkey Teeth said The Piper to tell the people what was happening, and The Piper confessed. In the meantime, the man that the Pilgrims freed before that was in the wall tried to shoot an arrow on The Piper, but Grah'hor parred the bolt, and Donkey Teeth put himself between both of them and said that everything would be solved peacefully, calling them strongly being Forcefully. It would start a Contest, but with a Tie, there was a unexpected twist: the leader guy took a small concealed laser pistol and shoot the traitor guy straight into his head, killing him instantly, and then, after saing something like _"Vagrul est rack vreshta!"_, he killed himself, putting the gun against his head and pushing the trigger, making everyone abashed, even making Donkey Teeth drops the F-bomb and Molly screaming like a little girl and she and Tivoli hiding herself behind Grah'hor.

Now, there was two guy dead, and Donkey Teeth said that this had gone too far. A guy who looked like the elder said that he never thought the Vagrulnians would go that low to steal their herd. Donkey Teeth tried to rationalize that they were into a famine, and that they should had tried to solve the problem diplomatically. In that time the herd got back to the village and then Grah'hor offered his help to the villagers by dealing with the monsters and helping dealing with the forest, and Molly and Donkey Teeth confirmed. The elder agreed with the Pilgrims and asked for Grah'hor help, and he agreed. The Vagrulnians came to negotiate with the Vigronians and said that *__that guy was a rogue agent__*, but the Pilgrims knew it was just a yadda-yadda talk to not get into a war with Vigro.

After solving this, Donkey Teeth chosed to look for the Flute, and saw that there was two symbols engraved on it: the symbol of the Flying Temple and another who looked like a snowflake. In that time, for some reason the weather go cold and snowing and they could see Muurgh over them, still outside the planet, but visible to everyone. With the snow, something fall from the sky, straight from Muurgh. It was a toy, a _Matryoshka_-like doll, shaped like a _Nutcracker_ soldier. Donkey Teeth looked worried if there's something dangerous on it, but nothing was wrong. In fact, when Donkey Teeth detached it's head, there was a parchment into the _Matryoshka_, with some mistletoe engravings, with some stamps that indicated that was a Letter for the Pilgrims of the Flying Temple. That was a call for help involving a kind of man who flew around the Many Worlds, delivering presents during a time called Christmas, but he needed help, as his flying reindeer could not fly this year, because the shortage on a magical Fairy Dust...

Donkey Teeth asks what is Christmas, and Molly says that was a day were good kids around the Many Worlds received gift, and bad ones received coal into their socks. Donkey Teeth thought that was weird, but him and Cloud Rock thought that if there's a need, they should help that Santa guy anyway. They waved goodbye for Molly, Tivoli, Grah'hor and everyone, got back to Muurgh and get his way to help this guy, not before noted that __*Muurg was bigger*__ and __*looking smarter*__ than when they left him to get to Vigro.
